# Smartbear Release's Metis, A Machine Learning Based IDE for Modern Development Teams

*SOMERVILLE, Mass. -- July 27th, 2018* -- Smartbear, the leader in software quality tools for teams, today released **Metis** - a cutting edge integrated developer environment designed from the ground up for modern software teams. With a history of supporting applications and users across the entire software development life cycle, Smartbear is in a unique position to discover issues that teams from various industries face every day. These became the catalyst for the new developer experience and by harnessing advanced machine learning algorithms **Metis** will provide the most intelligent, responsive and scalable IDE available on the market today.

With the abundance of packages available across even a single programming language - discovering new solutions, and maintaining existing packages becomes a time-consuming process. **Metis** integrates a sophisticated algorithm to dynamically suggest packages based on workspaces and projects. By continually learning from the developer community, these suggestions will become smarter and more contextualized with each new user. Trending packages are discoverable directly from within the IDE, no longer requiring scanning package libraries and blogs for solutions. 

As well as suggestions for users, **Metis** exposes packages stored on an individual machine, and also introduces a high-level view across an entire project allowing groups to ensure they are aligned on what dependencies and packages are being utilized, even when distributed. As new versions are introduced and utilized by development, **Metis** provides feedback to the downstream users of new dependencies that will be required once the development is complete, saving time and reducing bugs. With native git integrations, exposure to what is being using across branches means never leaving the workspace.

Modern software development focuses heavily on scalability, applications written today need to support the teams and users of tomorrow and integrate with other applications in the future. Many modern programming languages such as Python, Ruby and Java rely on package management platforms to ensure local development applications run exactly like production level deployments and can easily scale - but deviations in these packages can create more issues than they solve. As development continues to shift towards container-based applications, high level package management becomes even more integral. **Metis** is designed with packages as its cornerstone, ensuring the application on a developer machine runs with the same dependencies and stability as when it will be deployed to a production environment regardless of platform. 

With the release of **Metis**, Smartbear brings its best in class support, training and resources to the development environment - and the platform is designed to grow organically in line with the developer experience. To learn more about **Metis**, attend our inaugural webinar Monday, July 30th at 10 a.m. EST: https://register.metis.com

